NAME
    The Swish-e README File

What is Swish-e?
    Swish-e is Simple Web Indexing System for Humans - Enhanced. Swish-e can
    quickly and easily index directories of files or remote web sites and
    search the generated indexes.

    Swish-e it extremely fast in both indexing and searching, highly
    configurable, and can be seamlessly integrated with existing web sites
    to maintain a consistent design. Swish-e can index web pages, but can
    just as easily index text files, mailing list archives, or data stored
    in a relational database.

    Swish-e version 2.2 represents a major rewrite of the code and the
    addition of many new features. Memory requirements for indexing have
    been reduced, and indexing speed is significantly improved from previous
    versions. New features allow more control over indexing, better document
    parsing, improved indexing and searching logic, better filter code, and
    the ability to index from any data source.

    Swish-e is not a "turn-key" indexing and searching solution. The Swish-e
    distribution contains most of the parts to create such a system, but you
    need to put the parts together as best meets your needs. You will need
    to configure Swish-e to index your documents, create an index by running
    Swish-e, and setup an interface such as a CGI script (a script is
    included). Swish uses helper programs to index documents of types that
    Swish-e cannot natively index. These programs may need to be installed
    separately from Swish-e.

    Swish-e is an Open Source (see: http://opensource.org ) program
    supported by developers and a large group of users. Please take time to
    join the Swish-e discussion list at http://Swish-e.org.

  Key features

    *   Quickly index a large number of documents in different formats
        including text, HTML, and XML

    *   Use "filters" to index other types of files such as PDF, gzip, or
        Postscript.

    *   Includes a web spider for indexing remote documents over HTTP.
        Follows Robots Exclusion Rules (including META tags).

    *   Use an external program to supply documents to Swish-e, such as an
        advanced spider for your web server or a program to read and format
        records from a relational database.

    *   Document "properties" (some subset of the source document, usually
        defined as a META or XML elements) may be stored in the index and
        returned with search results

    *   Document summaries can be returned with each search

    *   Word stemming, soundex, metaphone, and double-metaphone indexing for
        "fuzzy" searching

    *   Phrase searching and wildcard searching

    *   Limit searches to HTML links

    *   Use powerful Regular Expressions to select documents for indexing or
        exclusion

    *   Easily limit searches to parts or all of your web site

    *   Results can be sorted by relevance or by any number of properties in
        ascending or descending order

    *   Limit searches to parts of documents such as certain HTML tags
        (META, TITLE, comments, etc.) or to XML elements.

    *   Can report structural errors in your XML and HTML documents

    *   Index file is portable between platforms.

    *   A Swish-e library is provided to allow embedding Swish-e into your
        applications. A Perl module is available that provides a standard
        API for accessing Swish-e.

    *   Includes example search scripts

    *   Swish-e is fast.

    *   It's open source and FREE! You can customize Swish-e and you can
        contribute your fancy new features to the project.

    *   Supported by on-line user and developer groups

Where do I get Swish-e?
    The current version of Swish-e can be found at:

    http://Swish-e.org

    Please make sure you use a current version of Swish-e.

    Information about Windows binary distributions can also be found at this
    site.

How Do I Install Swish-e?
    Read the INSTALL page.

    Building from source is recommended. On most platforms Swish-e should
    build without problems. Information on building for VMS and Win32 can be
    found in sub-directories of the "src" directory. Check the Swish-e site
    for information about binary distributions (such as for Windows).

    In addition to the INSTALL page, make sure you read the SWISH-FAQ page
    if you have any questions, or to get an idea of questions that you might
    someday ask.

    Problems or questions about installing Swish-e should be directed to the
    Swish-e discussion list (see the Swish-e web site at
    http://Swish-e.org).

The Swish-e Documentation
    Documetation is provided in the Swish-e distribution package in two
    forms, POD (Plain Old Documentation), and in html format. The POD
    documentation is in the pod directory, and the HTML documentation is in
    the html directory, of course.

    If your system includes the required support files and programs, the
    distribution make files can also generate the documentation in these
    formats:

        Postscript
        PDF (Adobe Acrobat)
        system man pages

    You may also build a "split" version of the documentation where each
    topic heading is a separate web page. Building the split version also
    creates a Swish-e index of the documentation that makes the
    documentation searchable via the included Perl CGI program.

    Building these other forms of documentation require additional helper
    applications -- most modern Linux distributions will include all that's
    needed (at least mine does...). You shouldn't have a problem if you have
    kept your Perl and Perl libraries up to date.

    Online documentation can be found at the Swish-e web site listed above.

    See INSTALL for information on creating the PDF and Postscript versions
    of the documentation, and for information on installing the SWISH-*
    documentation as Unix man(1) pages.

  How do I read the Swish-e documentation?

    The Swish-e documentation included with the distribution is in POD and
    HTML formats. The POD documentation can be found in the pod directory,
    and the HTML documentation can be found in the html directory.

    To view the HTML documentation point your browser to the html/index.html
    file.

    The POD documentation is displayed by the "perldoc" command that is
    included with every Perl installation. For example, to view the Swish-e
    installation documentation page called "INSTALL", type

       perldoc pod/INSTALL

    or to make life easier,

       cd pod
       perldoc INSTALL
       perldoc SWISH-RUN

    Complain to your system administrator if the "perldoc" command is not
    available on your machine.

  Included Documentation

    The following documentation is included in this Swish-e distribution.

    If you are new to Swish-e read the INSTALL page to get Swish-e installed
    and tested. Work through the example in shown in the INSTALL page, and
    the examples in the conf directory. Also review the SWISH-FAQ.

    *   README - This file

    *   INSTALL - Installation and basic usage instructions

    *   SWISH-CONFIG - Configuration File Directives

    *   SWISH-RUN - Running Swish and Command Line Switches

    *   SWISH-SEARCH - All about Searching with Swish-e

    *   SWISH-FAQ - Common questions, and some answers

    *   SWISH-LIBRARY - Interface to the Swish-e C library

    *   SWISH-PERL - Instructions for using the Perl library

    *   CHANGES - List of feature changes and bug fixes

    *   SWISH-BUGS - List of known bugs in the release

  Document Generation

    The Swish-e documentation in HTML format was created with
    Pod::HtmlPsPdf, a package of Perl modules written and/or modified by
    Stas Bekman to automate the conversion of documents in pod format (see
    perldoc perlpod) to HTML, Postscript, and PDF. A slightly modified
    version of this package is include with the Swish-e distribution and
    used for building the HTML. As distributed, Swish-e contains only the
    pod and HTML documentation. See INSTALL for instructions on creating
    man(1), Postscript, and PDF formats.

    Thanks, Stas, for your help!

What's included in the Swish-e distribution?
    Here's an overview of the directories included in the Swish-e
    distribution:

    conf/
       Example Swish-e configuration setups to help you get started. After
       reading the INSTALL page, and its included example, review the sample
       configuration in this directory.

    conf/stopwords
       In the "conf/stopwords" sub-directory are a number of stopword files
       for different languages. Use of stopwords is not required with
       Swish-e.

    doc/
       Contains files required for building the HTML, PDF, and Postscript
       documentation.

    example/
       This contains a sample CGI script (swish.cgi) for searching with
       Swish-e. Documentation for using swish.cgi are included within the
       script. Type:

           perldoc example/swish.cgi

       from the top-level directory where the Swish-e distribution was
       unpacked.

    filter-bin/
       Sample programs to use with Swish-e's "filters". Examples include
       PDF, MS Word, and binary strings filters. Filters often require
       installing separate document conversion programs.

    html/
       The documentation in HTML format.

    perl/
       The Perl interface to the Swish-e C library. This Perl module
       provides direct access to Swish-e from within your Perl programs. See
       the perl/README file for more information.

    pod/
       The source for all documentation in perldoc (pod) format.

    prog-bin/
       Example programs and modules to use with the "prog" document source
       access method. Examples include a web spider, a program to index
       directly from a MySQL database, and a program to recurse a directory
       tree. Example Perl modules are provided for converting PDF and
       MS-Word documents into a format usable by Swish-e. See
       prog-bin/README for an overview of the programs and modules, and
       check each file for included documentation.

       The prog-bin/spider.pl program is a web spider program with many
       features. It contains its own documentation. Type:

           perldoc example/spider.pl

       from the top-level directory where the Swish-e distribution was
       unpacked.

       The "prog" document source feature is very powerful, but can be a
       challange to set up when first using Swish-e. Please contact the
       Swish-e disussion list if you have any questions.

    src/
       This directory contains the source code for Swish-e. OS-specific
       directories are also found here.

    tests/
       The documents used for running "make test".

Where do I get help with Swish-e?
    If you need help with installing or using Swish-e please subscribe to
    the Swish-e mailing list. Visit the Swish-e web site listed above for
    information on subscribing to the mailing list.

    Before posting any questions please read QUESTIONS AND TROUBLESHOOTING
    in the INSTALL documentation page.

Speling mistakes
    Please contact the Swish-e list with corrections to this documentation.
    Any help in cleaning up the docs will be appreciated!

    Any patches should be made against the .pod files, not the .html files.

Swish-e Development
    Swish-e is currently being developed as an open source project on
    SourceForge http://sourceforge.net.

    Contact the Swish-e list for questions.

Swish-e's History
    SWISH was created by Kevin Hughes to fill the need of the growing number
    of Web administrators on the Internet - many of the indexing systems
    were not well documented, were hard to use and install, and were too
    complex for their own good. The system was widely used for several
    years, long enough to collect some bug fixes and requests for
    enhancements.

    In Fall 1996, The Library of UC Berkeley received permission from Kevin
    Hughes to implement bug fixes and enhancements to the original binary.
    The result is Swish-enhanced or Swish-e, brought to you by the Swish-e
    Development Team.

Document Info
    Each document in the Swish-e distribution contains this section. It
    refers only to the specific page it's located in, and not to the Swish-e
    program or the documentation as a whole.

    $Id: README.pod,v 1.11 2002/08/20 22:24:08 whmoseley Exp $

    .

